---
layout: post
date: Sun Dec 01 2013 22:16:00 GMT+0000 (GMT Standard Time)
title: Please sir is it ok to have a coffee and a can of 7-up for lunch?
---


Please sir is it ok to have a coffee and a can of 7-up for lunch?
=================================================================

It’s Edublog awards 2013!

The awards are such a good idea and are all about promoting and
demonstrating the educational value of social media. As a side effect
the awards have encouraged me to have a first stab at setting up a blog.

I was worrying this afternoon if it would be ok to have a can of 7up and
a coffee when ordering lunch. Is it too much to get 2 drinks in the same 
sitting? Would I get a funny look from the cashier or others in the
queue? Now I’m hoping that it’s ok to nominate the same person in more
than one category….

Anyways here are my nominations;

***Best individual blog***\
[http://lauramcinerney.com/](http://lauramcinerney.com/)\
Laura’s specialist topic is free schools & academies, and her research
and articles are tremendously useful to me in keeping abreast of that
environment. But what she covers is diverse, commenting on policy and
updates, I didn’t know how useful an FOI could be until I’d read her
blog and lots of fantastic material from her website. This is my 7up
nomination.

***Best individual tweeter***\
[https://twitter.com/miss\_mcinerney](https://twitter.com/miss_mcinerney)\
Ok for my coffee nomination, I’m nominating Laura for best individual
tweeter as well. Finding someone who’s been producing great material in
the educational twittersphere is a great way to get started. Watching
Question Time was transformed for me when I realised that so many people
were giving their views over social media and Laura’s tweets are some of
the most considered. There aren’t many people out there that tweet about
the Education Select Committee in real time either.

***Best EdTech Blog***\
[**[http://teachertoolkit.me/](http://teachertoolkit.me/)**](http://teachertoolkit.me/)\
And I guess this is my haagen daz desert nomination. Ross Morrison
McGill is an Assistant Vice Principal in a rapidly improving inner-city
school in North London. This fella is followed by over 37000 people on
twitter and writes books, so has a huge following. I love Ross’ use of
technology from social media to video, but also the tools that he makes
available to teachers. Check out his 5 minute lesson plan.

Well that’s it from me and I’m now looking forward to seeing some of the
nominations made by others.

