---
layout: post
slug: the-september-2013-inspection-framework
date: Sat Feb 01 2014 01:51:00 GMT+0000 (GMT Standard Time)
---


The September 2013 Inspection Framework & Behaviour 
====================================================

In December I touched on the role of Ofsted in inspecting behaviour and
I wanted to return to that now.

The statistics in the image below show that more schools scored higher
in behaviour than in any other Ofsted category.

![image](http://33.media.tumblr.com/e54bb7d2e4317333cec7528463ebea4f/tumblr_inline_n0angfXdwe1s27sgu.png)

In September 2013 Ofsted introduced a framework for school inspections
that was considered tougher than previous frameworks. A good explanation
of framework differences is available from Heather Leatt’s blog.

[http://www.heatherleatt.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Ofsted-changes-to-School-Inspection-Handbook-Sept-2013-v21.pdf](http://www.heatherleatt.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Ofsted-changes-to-School-Inspection-Handbook-Sept-2013-v21.pdf)

However in December the [Ofsted Annual
Report](http://www.ofsted.gov.uk/annualreport1213/) stated;

>  ‘*We have accepted for far too long minor disruption and inattention
> in schools.*’

In addition Ofsted stated that they would introduce no notice
inspections to schools if behaviour was a concern.

> ![image](http://33.media.tumblr.com/1926ef94494c0332bb6a6f6cb61f03a3/tumblr_inline_n0ann9eUo31s27sgu.png)

In fact Ofsted may carry out inspections due to complaints or concerns
from parents.

> ![image](http://38.media.tumblr.com/d516f5ed60c703ae6a8245acb5ed8812/tumblr_inline_n0annvLZcx1s27sgu.png)

Although these extra polices were being brought in to place I wanted to
consider if the September 2013 framework was generally tougher but
specifically tougher on behaviour.

It’s possible to get an ‘idea’ if this is happening by comparing the
inspections before and after September 2013, as shown using the analysis
date filters in [watchsted.com](http://watchsted.com) below.

 ![image](http://38.media.tumblr.com/c56b70b1cae367ba91f484f2f46df9a8/tumblr_inline_n0anolbbpa1s27sgu.png)

On face value it appears that fewer primary schools are reaching the
outstanding grade in the overall category; 6.1% under the new framework
and 7.6% under previous frameworks. It also appears that fewer primary
schools are reaching the outstanding grade in the behaviour category;
17.5% under the new framework and 23.3% under previous frameworks.

This is quite a big set of data so there does appear to be potential
evidence that the framework is tougher. However there are other
explanations, for example we can’t tell if the underlying profile of
both sets of inspections is the same.

Also its worth pointing out that some of the inspections are after
January 2014 and Heather points out that their were some additional
changes to behaviour then too.

[http://www.heatherleatt.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/School-inspection-handbook-vJan-2014-with-mark-up-and-comments.doc](http://www.heatherleatt.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/School-inspection-handbook-vJan-2014-with-mark-up-and-comments.doc)

Sounds like an area to investigate further :D

