---
layout: post
date: Sat Feb 01 2014 14:54:00 GMT+0000 (GMT Standard Time)
title: Watchsted.Com Upgrade
---


Watchsted.Com Upgrade
=====================

I wanted to write a post that would give everyone a run down of what’s
been added to Watchsted.Com and why. Also I wanted to note down all the
avenues that you can access Watchsted.

**WATCHSTED PERFORMANCE TABLES**

The Ofsted Annual Report and Data Dashboard provide great statistics on
school inspections and local authority performance. Unfortunately, they
only include inspections up to August 2013.

I was watching a debate in Westminster titled “Oftsed and standards in
Education - Mr Rob Wilson”. It is available at the following link,
although you will need to jump forward to 1 hour and 27 minutes.

[http://www.parliamentlive.tv/Main/Player.aspx?meetingId=14661](http://www.parliamentlive.tv/Main/Player.aspx?meetingId=14661)

During the debate it was clear that Local Authorities were judged in
part on the inspection results of schools within their area.
Specifically the percentage of pupils in a good or outstanding
category. This type of ranking is also available in the media, see the
guardians excellent run down published in December.

[http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2013/dec/11/educational-lottery-best-performing-schools-england-ofsted](http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2013/dec/11/educational-lottery-best-performing-schools-england-ofsted)

However Ofsted’s published statistics only include inspections up-to
August 2013 (at the time of writing).

Have things at your local authority changed since then? Why compare
local authorities using an out-of-date figure?

These new Performance Tables provide similar analyses to Ofsted but
include all of the very latest inspections, as of now, as opposed to
August 2013. That way, any changes at your Local Authority can be
incorporated. Isn’t that better than looking at data that could be
months behind? Also Watchsted statistics are updated every night.

These new tables include the percentage of pupils attending a good or
outstanding school for each local authority. An example is shown below.
We’ve added some handy filters so that you can narrow down the table to
a specific type of school e.g. Primary. You can also look at regions or
the national picture.

![image](http://33.media.tumblr.com/1f254408cdd8339fc7ca3f211993324d/tumblr_inline_n0bm3tJxMU1s27sgu.jpg)

**Latest 100 Inspections**

Ofsted carry out high volumes of inspections and ideally the reports
would be published soon afterwards. For various reasons this isn’t
always the case. Eagle-eyed Watchsted community members noticed that
some inspections don’t appear on our map. Instead of the latest 50,
we’ve upgraded the map to show the latest 100 inspections in an attempt
to include as many inspections as possible.

**Analysis and Date Filters**

Analysis becomes more meaningful and measurable since we introduced
handy date filters on the analysis pages. You can now see the count of
the latest framework inspections within any chosen time period. This
means you can see if Ofsted really are paying closer attention to
behaviour.

![image](http://38.media.tumblr.com/9fc9ac57b7730da49ebdb64dce73f8f2/tumblr_inline_n0bn41foQE1s27sgu.jpg)

We had also noticed tweets showing that members of the public were
counting up the inspections on the map to gather aggregate statistics.
We thought that was a great idea and but the date filters mean that you
can get the counts without manual counting.

**Who does Watchsted help?**

**Public **

We made Watchsted.Com for everyone its free.

**Local Authorities**

All of the 155 local authorities that are members of the NCER can access
Watchsted functionality that is tailored to them through a system called
Nexus. For example there is a map that will show all of an LAs schools
and their inspection grades. If you work at a local authority the
functionality is part of your existing membership, so get in touch with
your Nexus administrator to get a login.

**Academy Groups**

Academy groups can access Watchsted functionality that is tailored to
their group through a system called Observatory. We work with lots of
academy groups whose schools are dotted all over England.

**Media and Research**

There are a few ways we can work with media and people interested in
educational research. If that’s you get in touch and we can talk about
what you are interested in and how we can share and co-create with you.

**Schools & Children’s Centres**

Schools & Children’s Centres can access Watchsted functionality through
a system called Perspective Lite. The functionality is tailored to the
type of school. We also have an advanced module that is available
specifically for schools and that includes inspector profiles and
advanced search functionality.

